[B]Plugin: [/B]Towny
[RIGHT]                                                     [URL='http://webchat.esper.net/?channels=towny']IRC: Join channel #Towny[/URL][/RIGHT]
[RIGHT][URL='https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=8WWJ76KLFKM4G'][IMG]https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_GB/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif[/IMG][/URL][/RIGHT]
 [B]Version:[/B] v0.76.3.1

 Taking Shades Towny a step farther.

[B]REQUIRES[/B]
[LIST]
[*]No other plugins, but is best with [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/Questioner']Questioner[/URL] so that invitations are given by Towns and Nations to residents and towns.
[/LIST]
[B]Optional[/B]

[LIST]
[*]Questioner 0.4 - [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/downloads/detail?name=Questioner.jar&can=2&q=']Download Jar[/URL]
[*]Essentials 2.5+ - (Towny /town spawn's obey Essentials teleport cooldown)
[*]All permissions plugins are supported and provide greater customization.
[*]Economy plugin of your choice.
[/LIST]
[B]Supported Economy Plugins[/B]

[LIST]
[*]iConomy 5 - [URL='http://bukkit.org/deadfly.php?id=587691/51']Download Jar[/URL]
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/1080.40/']iConomy 6[/URL] *
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/1185.15312/']EssentialsEco[/URL] *
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/19025']BOSEconomy[/URL] *
[*] * Requires Register.jar 1.5+ in your plugins folder. [URL='http://mirror.nexua.org/Register/latest/stable/Register.jar']Download Register.jar[/URL]
[/LIST]
[B]Plugins That Support Towny[/B]

[LIST]
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/4336']Lockette 1.4.3+[/URL]
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/35103']Deadbolt 1.2+[/URL]
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/4150']ChestShop 3.2+[/URL]
[*][URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/threads/29085']BarterSigns 1.2.1+[/URL]
[/LIST]
[B]Download Towny[/B]

[LIST]
[*][B]Release version:[/B] [URL='http://palmergames.com/downloads/']Download Jar[/URL] | [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/']Source[/URL]
[*][B]Dev Version:[/B] [URL='http://palmergames.com/downloads/']Download Jar[/URL] (Majorly Different - Visit IRC channel before using.)
[*]if using register REQUIRES Register 1.5+ version
[/LIST]
[B]Installing and Upgrading[/B]

[URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/InstallingTowny']Installing for the first time[/URL]
[URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/UpgradingTowny']Upgrading Towny to latest Release[/URL]

[B]Config[/B]
Read this page to learn what everything in the config does!
[URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/DefaultConfig']Default Config.yml[/URL]

[B]Permission Nodes[/B]
Use these permission nodes if you are also using any permissions plugin (Permissions 2/3, GroupManager, PEX, Superperms)
[URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/PermissionNodes']Permission Nodes[/URL]

[B]How Towny Works[/B]
Read this wikipage to learn how Towny works, this page is a must-read for every admin and will unlock the features/customizability in Towny.
[URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/HowTownyWorks']How it works/Features[/URL]

[B]Wiki[/B]
[URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/']Towny Wiki Site[/URL]

[B]Suggestions and Issues[/B]
Make a suggestion - [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/issues/entry?template=Suggestion']Link[/URL]
Report an issue - [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/issues/entry?template=Defect%20report%20from%20user']Link[/URL]

[spoiler=Whats new][B]New in 0.76.3.0[/B]
[LIST]
[*]New commands:
[LIST]
[*]None
[/LIST]
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]New Permission Nodes:
[LIST]
[*]When using SuperPerms you can now use the following nodes with towny.
[*]prefix.prefixhere
[*]suffix.suffixhere
[*]towny_maxplots.x (with x being a number eg towny_maxplots.2)
[/LIST]
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]Added:
[LIST]
[*]Force load of chunks when using /town spawn, to stop voids.
[*]If wild_revert_on_mob_explosion is enabled, there are no drops anymore.
[*]Simplfied Plugin interfacing for Economy plugins to a single setting of using_economy. Towny will first attempt to use Register.jar. If it's not present it will fall back to the legacy support for iConomy 5.01.
[*]Added a permission handler, detecting and supporting all Permission plugins.
[*]Admins can now pick, choose and modify which notifications are shown when a player walks from plot to plot. Check the new section 'Town Notifications' in the config.
[*]Added a seperate thread for Town Claim to relieve the lag caused by Chunk snapshot generation.
[*]Added access from console for '/ta givebonus', and expanded to allow a town or a player to give the bonus to. (bonus given to the player is directly transfered to the town)
[*]Pistons can now push between town owned townblocks.
[/LIST]
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]Bug Fixes!
[LIST]
[*]Fixed economy errors when using register and iCo6.
[*]Fixed Wild permissions.
[*]Fixed an error with Essentials Eco's currency type.
[*]Fixed '/town new' and '/nation new' to properly follow the settings in config if permissions are disabled.
[*]Fixed modplayername in chat format generating duplicate entries.
[*]Towny World commands are now admin only again.
[*]Fixed a world bug where Plot revert was following wild revent instead of it's own setting.
[*]Fixed town spawn when not using any permissiosn plugins.
[/LIST]
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]Lots more bugfixes! [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/source/browse/trunk/Towny/src/ChangeLog.txt#582']Click here for a full changelog.[/URL]
[/LIST]
-Towny Advanced 0.76.2.0 received 1809 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.76.1.0 received 1758 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.76.0 received 2784 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.75.1 received 1644 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.75.0 received  126 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.74.0 received 3012 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.73.2 received 2580 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.73.1 recieved 1501 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.73.0 received  412 downloads.
-Towny Advanced 0.72.1 received 1230 downloads.
[/spoiler]

[spoiler=Changelog][B]Changelog[/B]
v0.76.0:
    - Added Town Buy command. Is defaulted to be empty. Currently only has ability to buy bonus blocks up until a set limit.
      '/town buy'
      '/town buy bonus [n]'
    - [Bonus: 0] is now hidden from the status when the town has no bonus blocks.
    - Added: [Bought: 0/max] to /town.
    - Fixed the shutdown of the Teleport warmup timer on restarts.
    - Fixed enabling Devmode, debug and reading integers from the config.
    - Added town bank caps and a toggle to enable/disable withdrawls from town banks (prevent players hiding money in towns on PVP worlds) - thanks phrstbrn
    - New command '/townyadmin toggle withdraw'.
    - Added two new commands to see who's online
      '/town online'
      '/nation online'
    - Fix for deleted residents in friend lists causing errors upon deletion, and the same error with nation deletion and enemy/ally lists.
    - Prevent sticky pistons pulling blocks across plot boundaries (if different owners).
    - Fix for getLastLocation() needing to throw a NullPointerException. The players location is now set upon creation of the cache.
    - Added a Maxplots permissions node. If a group doesn't have this node or the node is set to -1 Towny will default back to the max_plots_per_resident in config.
      Setting max_plots_per_resident to -1 with no permission node, or a node set to -1 will allow infinite plots.

      Eg usage:

        groups:
          Default:
            default: true
            permissions:
            - general.spawn
            inheritance: []
            info:
              prefix: ''
              build: true
              suffix: ''
              towny_maxplots: 1
          Admins:
            default: false
            permissions:
            - '*'
            inheritance:
            info:
              prefix: ''
              build: true
              suffix: ''
              towny_maxplots: -1

    - Fixed old resident deletion for the new config system using seconds instead of milliseconds.
    - Towny now correctly defaults to Bukkits Permissions if using_permissions is set to false in the config.
    - Added XcraftGate to the plugin.yml as a recognised multiworld plugin.
    - Added a new unclaim_delete under Plot management in global_town_settings. This will delete any items listed when a town unclaims a plot or a town is deleted.
v0.76.1.0:
    - Fixed error with '/town buy' granting the wrong number of blocks.
    - Fixed converting seconds to milliseconds for mobremoval and new day timers.
    - Fixed an error when using '/town claim #'.
    - Fixed an error with '/town claim auto' (I broke it fixing the above command).
    - Explosions in the nether caused by using beds are now blocked if a town is there and set to block explosions. However, the fires it generates can not be blocked.
    - Added (Online) to title Resident Status
    - Added Neutral in Nation status.
    - Moved /nation set neutral [on/off] to /nation toggle neutral
    - Added plot regeneration.
      When a town plot is unclaimed (by a player or through upkeep) it will slowly begin to revert to a pre town state.
      Blocks will slowly change back to whatever blocks we're present at the moment the town block was claimed.
      You can configure certain block types you don't want restored to prevent players exploiting regen for diamond ores.
      Block types to not restore are configured in block_ignore in the worlds txt file data/worlds/worldname.txt
    - Added a block deletion function to remove specified blocks when a town block becomes unclaimed.
      This is useful for removing Lockette/Deadbolt signs on doors and chests.
      Block types to remove are configured in unclaim_delete in the worlds txt file data/worlds/worldname.txt
    - Removed the commands '/town add+' and '/town kick+'. Use '/town add' and '/town kick'.
    - Removed + commands from '/town assistant [.add/remove]'.
    - Fixed when players are added to the default town they are unable to use '/town leave'.
    - Town data files should now be correctly deleted (moved to the deleted folder) upon removal.
    - Added a max_tax_amount and max_tax_percent to the config for towns. Defaults to 1000 and 25% respetively.
      Which one is used depends on how the town is taxing; flat rate or by percentage.
    - Fixed Town and Nation tags size limit.
    - Titles and surnames can now contain spaces.
    - Fixed default Bukkit Permissions to deny instead of allow.
    - Fixed last timer for deleting old residents.
    - Added a new setting 'regen_delay'.
      This setting is in seconds. It will allow players to break protected blocks in the wild and towns, even if they dont have permission.
      The blocks will drop no loot and will regenerate after the specified time.
      Defaults to 0 (disabled).
    - Added Nation bank caps and moved the settings to the economy section.
    - Moved daily tax settings to the economy section of the config.
    - Tidy of economy settings (WARNING - be sure to check the values after upgrading).
    - Added a broadcast if a Nation is disbanded due to a town deletion.
    - Fixed '/xxx claim auto' commands for town and resident.
    - Fixed '/plot unclaim xx' command. Now errors if it's an invalid entry.
    - Minor alterations to english.yml
    - No more sneak jump to avoid the cheat protection.
    - Fixed resetting tags using '/town set tag '.
    - Plot regen should now correctly restore different types of leaves/wood etc.
    - Added a new Default new world setting (wild_revert_on_mob_explosion). When enabled this will replace blocks destroyed by creature explosions in the wild.
    - Fixed a 'TickNextTick list out of synch' error on a new day.
    - Fixed overwriting custom language files (no, really this time).
    - Towny will now clean up it's backup folder. Default time to keep backups is 90 days (configurable in config).
    - Fixed default switch and item use permissions for ally and outsider.
    - Finally fixed the elusive error when getLastLocation() throws a NullPointerException.
    - Fixed an infinite loop when a player uses a fly hack over void.
    - Added support for Register 2.0 (Register.jar) - Supports iConomy5, iConomy6, EssentialsEco, BOSEconomy.
      ([URL]https://github.com/iConomy/Register/tree/master/dist[/URL])
    - Towny will no longer cause an exception if users attempt to use iConomy 6 instead of 5.01 natively.
    - Added some new permission nodes.

      - towny.town.delete : player can delete their town
      - towny.town.rename : player can rename their town
      - towny.town.toggle.* : User has access to all town toggle commands (if a mayor or assistant).
      - towny.town.toggle.pvp : If a mayor or assistant, the user is able to toggle pvp on/off in their town.
      - towny.town.toggle.public : If a mayor or assistant....
      - towny.town.toggle.explosions : If a mayor or assistant....
      - towny.town.toggle.fire : If a mayor or assistant....
      - towny.town.toggle.mobs :  If a mayor or assistant....
      - towny.nation.delete : player can delete their nation
      - towny.nation.rename : player can rename their nation
      - towny.nation.grant-titles : King can set nation members titles and surnames '/nation set [title/surname]'.
      - towny.nation.* : Grants all Nation permission nodes.

    - Added 'towny time' : Displays the time until a new day is scheduled.
    - Players can no longer attack another players tamed wolf if in a non PVP area (can attack own).
    - Added new API functions
      TownyUniverse.getTownBlock(location)
      TownyUniverse.getCachePermission(player,location,action)
    - Towny will now check the Craftbukkit version and disable itself if it's too old.
v0.76.2.0:
    - Fixed economy errors when using register and iCo6.
    - Fixed an error caused by players setting a town or nation bank cap as a double (now accepts 0.0).
    - Added sanity checking on values pulled from the config.yml.
    - Updated a few nation commands to report the command format insted of throwing errors.
    - Tidied Startup log data
    - Fixed Wild permissions.
    - Refactored '/town spawn' with new config options for when the target town is part of your nation,
      or an allied nation. Each can have their own cost and has their own permission.
    - Town spawn permissions have been changed to:

      - towny.town.spawn.* : Grants all Spawn travel nodes
      - towny.town.spawn.town : Ability to spawn to your own town.
      - towny.town.spawn.nation : Ability to spawn to other towns in your nation.
      - towny.town.spawn.ally : Ability to spawn to towns in nations allied with yours.
      - towny.town.spawn.public : Ability to spawn to unaffilated public towns.
    - Added missing permission nodes to support...
      - towny.wild.*
    - Fixed a bug preventing players placing fences if they are admins.
	- Adjusted wilderness permissions
	  Towny will first check for permisison nodes.
	  If no permissions are found the wild_ignore list is checked.
	  If none of the above give permissions the worlds Wilderness zone settings are checked.
	- Enabled use of the following commands for admins while still using permissions.
	  '/townyworld set usedefault'
	  '/townyworld set wildperm'
	  '/townyworld set wildperm [build,destroy,switch,ItemUse]'
	  '/townyworld set wildignore xx,xx,xx'
	  '/townyworld set wildname Wildy'
	- Added a fix for tags in data files crashing towny on load.
	- Fixed town spawns to correctly follow config and permissions settings.
	- Fixed NullPointerException generated by onPlayerInteractEvent.
	- Fixed message when setting Town tags to not say nation.
	- Fixed '/nation deposit' error message.
	- Added handling of World initialization to fix a bug when creating new worlds with Multiverse.
	- Permit residents not in town to use public spawns again.
	- Corrected permissions node checking to match those in the config for spawn travel.
	- Removed a lot of debug spam from permission checking.
	- Fix for a possible error on shutdown with active warzones.
	- Fix so players can only attack other towns IF the correct number of players are online on BOTH sides.
	- If your town/nation is attacked with warflags the attackers will automatically be set as enemies (allows you to attack back).
	- Fixed renaming a town when it's also a capitol failing to update the nation.
	- Removed dependency on Bukkit to report the world list at startup (it's not always complete).
	- Fixed a startup error on fresh installs.
	- Towns which have unclaimed their HomeBlock (or all TownBlocks) no longer corrupt the data files on a shutdown.
	- Towns are now able to move worlds by moving their homeblock to that world.
	- Fixed Account creation for towns and nations when using BOSEconomy.
	- Towny now uses the correct currency type (coins/dollars) as defined in your Eco plugin.
	- Added '/town set tag clear' and '/nation set tag clear' to reset tags.
	- Titles and surnames are now reset if the player is not in a nation.
	- Added '/plot clear' for mayors.
	  If a plot is owned by the town (not a resident) the mayor can stand in the plot and type this command to remove all block types as specified in mayor_plotblock_delete.
	  This setting is per world so transfers to the world data files at startup.
	- Added upkeep charging based upon the number of town plots (town_plotbased_upkeep) - thanks to phex
	- Slight reorgnise of TownyUniverse (if you hook towny be sure your functions have not moved).
	- Changed the daily timer to a set time each day. Configure new_day_time to set when you want taxes to be collected.
	  eg. 15h30m would attempt to collect taxes at 3:30pm.
	- Returned the setting day_interval so you can configure the length of a day.
	  If you set a day length of 12 hours (12h), taxes will be collected on a 12 hourly cycle, instead of a 24 hour one.
	  new_day_time should be set to less than the day_interval, but it will default to the same, if it's incorrectly set.
        - Fixed an error in fetching the resident on new cache creation (caused by code reorganising).
v0.76.3.0:
	- Fixed an error when not using a currency type with Essentials Eco.
	- Force load the destination chunk when teleporting. Attempt to prevent the falling through the world bug.
	- If wild_revert_on_mob_explosion is enabled, the explosions no longer drop any blocks.
	- Simplfied Plugin interfacing for Economy plugins to a single setting of using_economy.
	  Towny will first attempt to use Register.jar. If it's not present
	  it will fall back to the legacy support for iConomy 5.01.
	- Added a Permission handler to towny so it will now support GroupManager, PEX, bPermissions, Permissions 2/3 + (bridges) and Bukkit Perms.
	- Admins can now pick, choose and modify which notifications are shown when a player walks from plot to plot. Check the new section 'Town Notifications' in the config.
	- Town notifications now show a money formatted price.
	- Fixed '/town new' and '/nation new' to properly follow the settings in config if permissions are disabled.
	- If not using Eco, Towny will no longer error when deleting/renaming towns/nations, or upon a new day.
	- When using SuperPerms you can now use the following nodes with towny.
	  prefix.prefixhere
	  suffix.suffixhere
	  towny_maxplots.x (with x being a number eg towny_maxplots.2)
	- Town spawn cost now outputs correctly formatted by the settings in your economy plugin.
	- Fixed modplayername in chat format generating duplicate entries.
	- Optimized Towny chat so it no longer performs lots of wasteful string parsing on every message.
	- Added a seperate thread for Town Claim to relieve the lag caused by Chunk snapshot generation.
	- Towny World commands are now admin only again.
	- Fixed a world bug where Plot revert was following wild revent instead of it's own setting.
	- Requires CraftBukkit 1302 as a minimum, to clear memory leaks.
	- Added access from console for '/ta givebonus', and expanded to allow a town or a player to give the bonus to.
	  (bonus given to the player is directly transfered to the town)
	- Towny now zero's economy accounts upon removal of resident/town/nation, to allow the account deletion.
	- Pistons can now push between town owned townblocks.
	- Fixed town spawn when not using any permissiosn plugins.
	- Update for Bukkit 1317's new YamlConfiguration.

    [URL='http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/source/browse/trunk/Towny/src/ChangeLog.txt']Full Changelog[/URL]
    [/spoiler]

Credits: Many thanks to all contributers including, but not limited to: Fuzziewuzzie, Shadeness, [URL='http://forums.bukkit.org/members/llmdl.10585/']LlmDl[/URL], SwearWord and dumptruckman.