#summary How to install Towny for the first time.

= Introduction =

Here are instructions for installing Towny for the first time.
There are a few steps so follow them all carefully.

= Step One - Preparing your server. =

  # Stop your server completely.
  # Download the following and copy to your Plugins folder:
    * [http://www.palmergames.com/downloads/tarel/Towny_Advanced.zip Download Towny Advanced.zip] (Includes Towny, TownyChat and Questioner.)
      * Towny.jar is required at all times,
      * TownyChat.jar is required if you want to have Towny modify chatting in any way. (Adding prefixes and suffixes to chat, adding chat channels.)
      * Questioner.jar is required if you want players to receive invites to towns, instead of being added automatically.
    * If you use any economy plugin other than iConomy 5.01 you will be required to download [http://www.palmergames.com/downloads/registerrel/Register.jar Register.jar] and put it in your plugins folder.
  # Start your server.
  # Stop your server.

= Step Two - Configuring your existing worlds. =
  
  * Navigate to the newly-created \plugins\Towny\Data\Worlds\ folder.
  * You will find worldname.txt files created for all your existing worlds.
  * Open each worldname.txt file and carefully read the comments and settings. These are settings which are not altered by changing the config, the config is only used to make settings for newly-made worlds.
  * Edit the files accordingly, of note are the regeneration settings used in each world, it is here you will turn off plots regenerating if a townblock is unclaimed/lost by a town. For an explanation on how regenerations work read the [http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/wiki/HowTownyWorks#Plot_Regeneration_&_Unclaimed_Plots Plot Regeneration section] of the How Towny Works wikipage.
    
= Step Three - Configuring Towny's config.yml =

  * Navigate to \Plugins\Towny\Settings\
    * Open *config.yml*
    * Carefully configure config.yml to your liking. Including:
      * Set townblock size, default 16x16 (Cannot be changed later!)
      * Set settings for new default worlds. (Anything you saw in your worldname.txt files.)
      * Set settings for new towns.
    * Permissions setting:
      * Your permissions plugin should automatically be detected and using_permissions: should be set to true.
      * If you use no permissions plugin change using_permissions: to false.
      * *If you use a permissions plugin you MUST configure your [PermissionNodes permission nodes]*
    * Save config.yml and start your server, you are now ready to found your first town.

= Step Four - Configuring Towny's channels.yml (Optional) =

  * If using townychat.jar, 
  * Navigate to \Plugins\Towny\Settings\
    * Open *channels.yml*
    * Carefully configure channels.yml to your liking. 
  


  