#summary Towny Permission Nodes.

= Introduction to Permission Nodes =

Add a description of which nodes and when towny uses its nodes.

= Permission Nodes =

  * towny.admin: User is able to use /townyadmin, as well as the ability to build/destroy anywhere. User can also able to make towns or nations when set to admin only.

  * towny.town.resident : User is able to join a town.
  * towny.town.new : User is able to create a town (used only when town_creation_admin_only: true)
  * towny.town.claim : User is able to expand his town with /town claim (used when world is set as unclaimable in /townyworld)
  * towny.town.plot : User is able to use the /plot commands, to buy or sell land personally.

  * towny.nation.new : User is able to create a nation (used only when nation_creation_admin_only: true)

  * towny.top : Gives users access to /towny top command.

  * towny.wild.asterisk
  * towny.wild.build
  * towny.wild.destroy
  * towny.wild.switch
  * towny.wild.item_use
  * towny.wild.block.{block id}.asterisk
  * towny.wild.block.{block id}.build
  * towny.wild.block.{block id}.destroy
  * towny.wild.block.{block id}.switch
  * towny.wild.block.{block id}.itemuse

  * towny.spawntp :Use /town spawn (requires allow_town_spawn: true set in the config.)
  * towny.publicspawntp : Use "/town spawn {town}" (teleport to other towns) (requires allow_town_spawn_travel: true in set in the config.)

  * towny.cheat.bypass : User is allowed to fly, use WorldEdit's compass.
  
= Info Nodes =

  This is similar to a permission node as it is added to your permission nodes file(s).
  
  * towny_maxplots: {number}
    This info node is used to limit the number of plots a player can own based on what permissions group they are in. If a group doesn't have this node or the node is set to -1 Towny will default back to the max_plots_per_resident in config.
    Setting max_plots_per_resident to -1 with no permission node, or a node set to -1 will allow infinite plots.
  
    Example:
    {{{
  		groups:
  		  Default:
  		    default: true
  		    permissions:
  		    - general.spawn
  		    inheritance: []
  		    info:
  		      prefix: ''
  		      build: true
  		      suffix: ''
  		      towny_maxplots: 1
  		  Admins:
  		    default: false
  		    permissions:
  		    - '*'
  		    inheritance:
  		    info:
  		      prefix: ''
  		      build: true
  		      suffix: ''
		      towny_maxplots: -1
    }}}