#summary All about Questioner

= Questioner =

Questioner is a vital to your server if you use Towny and iConomy together.

Questioner's role is to prompt players when they are invited to a town, and town's mayors when they are invited to a nation, whether they would like to join the town or nation.

The prompt displays which town or nation is inviting the player and asks for an /accept or /deny response.

If you have usingiConomy:true in your [DefaultConfig config.yml] then you need to use Questioner. There is one big, nightmare scenario which can occur if you do not use Questioner:

  As an example, lets use Miner Steve. Miner Steve could be the mayor of a town or he could be the leader of a nation. Miner Steve invites a resident or town into his town or nation.
  Because the server does not have Questioner enabled the resident or town is not prompted about whether they want to join, they are just added.
  Miner Steve is feeling devious so he sets his town's tax or nation's tax incredibly high! When the next 'Towny Day' rolls around, all the residents/towns in Steve's town/nation are charged the immense tax, bankrupting them instantly! This can also lead to deleted towns.
  
= New to Questioner 0.4 =

Using Question 0.4+ and Towny 0.72.0+, town mayors are now prompted to join a nation. This prompt was never coded, so if you are running an older build of Questioner, update!
You can find the most up-to-date Questioner and Towny on the [http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/towny/downloads/list Downloads Page.]
