#summary A short introduction to Towny's protection abilities.

= Introduction =

Towny provides a server admin a hands-off approach to block-protection. Block protection is broken down into plots of land, called townblocks, which by default are 16x16x128 (the full height of the world.) 

These townblocks are claimed by town mayors who can then sell/give individual plots to their town's residents. 

= Townblock Permissions =

There are 4 permission-type values, which can be set for personal plots and for town plots as well (town permissions can be set by the mayor.) The basic command for this is either _/res set perm_ or _/t set perm_ followed by the proper flags for each permission.

Permissions are viewable by typing either _/res_ for personal plot perms or by typing _/t_ for town permissions.
The 4 permission-types available are Build, Destroy, Switch and Itemuse.
  * Build allows players to add blocks in your town/plot.
  * Destroy allows players to remove blocks in your town/plot. 
  * Switch covers the use of:
    * wooden and iron doors,
    * levers,
    * wooden and stone pressure plates,
    * buttons,
    * trapdoors,
    * noteblocks,
    * jukeboxes,
    * redstone repeaters.
  * Itemuse covers the use of:
    * water and lava buckets, 
    * empty buckets,
    * lighters,
    * bonemeal.
    

Each permission-type has 3 groups which the permission can be set for, these are displayed on your /res perm line as FAO and stand for Friend, Ally, Outsider. 

For residents the Friend group consists of a player's friend list. 

For towns the perm line reads RAO, with R representing Residents (players in that town) and mayors need to use _/t set perm resident blah on/off_ instead of _/t set perm friend blah on/off_. 

The other groups are Ally (players from other towns in your nation, and nations your nation is allied with) and Outsiders (players who are not rart of your town or nation.)

= Protection Additions Found in Towny Advanced =

*New in Towny Advanced (0.72+) are two new protection types, anti-explosion and anti-firespread.*

On the town level, a mayor can set these flags using:
  * /town set explosion {on/off}
  * /town set fire {on/off}

Explosion protection stops all explosions. This stops TNT, TNT cannons and creeper explosions.

Firespread protection stops all fires from spreading, including lava, lightning and lighters. 
